---
layout: post
title:  "Legacy"
author: Jacob
tags: [ Legacy, Mentorship, Growth Mindset, Impact, Leadership ]
image: "assets/images/books/legacy.webp"
description: Legacy book
featured: true
hidden: false
beforetoc: ""
toc: false
---

**Book Author:** James Kerr

Ever wondered why the All Blacks are so successful?

**1) Character**

A collection of talented individuals without personal discipline will ultimately and inevitably fail. Character triumphs over talent.

Performance = Capability + Behaviour

Our values decide our character. Our character decides our value.

Humility does not mean weakness, but it's the opposite. Leaders with mana understand the strength of humility. It allows them to connect with their deepest values and the wider world.

Sweep the Sheds

Never be too big to do the small things that need to be done.

*Kāore te kūmara e whāki ana tana reka.*

The kūmara (sweet potato) does not need to say how sweet he is.

**2) Adapt**

A winning organization is an environment of personal and professional development, in which each individual takes responsibility and shares ownership.

In decision making we need to: Observe; Orient; Decide; & Act.

Go for the Gap

When we’re at the top of the game, it’s time to change our game.

Adaption is not a reaction, but continual action, so plan to respond.

*I orea te tuatara, ka puta ki waho.*

When poked at with a stick, the tuatara will emerge. (A problem is solved by continuing to find solutions.)

**3) Purpose**

He rangi tā Matawhāiti, he rangi tā Matawhānui.
The person with a narrow vision sees a narrow horizon, the person with a wide visionsees a wide horizon.

Better People Make Better All Blacks.
Better People Make Better Leaders.

Inspired leaders, organizations and teams find their deepest purpose – their ‘why?’ – andattract followers through shared values, vision and beliefs.

Knowing what you're "fighting" for. To add to the legacy.

Play with Purpose
Ask ‘Why?’

*Whāia e koe ki te iti kahurangi;
ki te tuohu koe, me he maunga teitei.*

Seek the treasure you value most dearly; if you bow your head, let it be to a lofty mountain.

**4) Responsibility**

*Haere taka mua, taka muri; kaua e whai.*

Be a leader, not a follower.

Leaders create leaders. They arm their subordinates with intent. And then step out of theway.

By arming their people with a clearly defined goal, leaders can enable them to respond appropriately tochanging context, without losing sight of the tactical imperative.

Leaders create leaders by passing on responsibility, creating ownership, accountabilityand trust.

Pass the ball

Leaders create leaders.

*Ki ngā whakaeke haumi.*

Join those who can join the sections of a canoe. (Look for a leader who can bring peopletogether.)

**5) Learners**

Create A Learning Environment
Leaders are teachers

The best sports people in the world practice more than they play.

Always challenging the status quo & asking how can we do things better?

Success is modest improvements consistently done.

Marginal gains: 100 things done 1% better to deliver cumulative competitive advantage.

Successful leaders look beyond their own field to discover new approaches, learn best practices and push the margins. Then they pass on what they have learned.

*Te tīmatanga o te mātauranga ko te wahangū, te wāhanga tuarua ko te whakarongo.*

The first stage of learning is silence, the second stage is listening.

**6) Whānau**

Just like a flock of birds: Fly in formation. Be of one mind. Follow the spearhead.

This is the ‘being of team’ and the essence of the successful organization.

For the Strength of the Pack is the Wolf,
and the strength of the Wolf is the Pack.

No one is bigger than the team & individual brilliance does not automatically lead tooutstanding results. One selfish mindset will infect a collective culture.

Great leaders ruthlesslyprotect their people, encouraging connection, collaboration and collective ownership, nurturing a safeenvironment of trust, respect and family.

*Kia urupū tātou; kaua e taukumekume.*

Let us be united, not pulling against one another.

**7) Expectations**

Embrace Expectations

*Whāia te iti kahurangi; ki te tuohu koe, me he maunga teitei.*

Aim for the highest cloud, so that if you miss it, you will hit a lofty mountain.

Successful leaders have high internal benchmarks. They set their expectations high and tryto exceed them.

By embracing a fear of failure, we can lift our performance, using a healthy loss aversion to motivate us.

**8) Preparation**

*Ko te piko o te māhuri, te-rā te tupu o te rākau.*

The way the sapling is shaped determines how the tree grows.

Train To Win, Practise under pressure

Intensity of preparation – ‘Training to win’ – conditions the brain and body to perform
under pressure. It lets peak performance become automatic. It develops the mindset towin.

‘If you’re not growing anywhere, you’re not
going anywhere.’

Training with intensity accelerates personal growth.

Focus on what you can control, NOT on what you can't.

*Tangata akona ki te kāinga, tūngia ki te marae, tau ana.*

A person who is taught at home will stand with confidence in the community.

**9) Pressure**

Pressure is expectation, scrutiny and consequence. Under pressure, your attention is either diverted or on track.
If you’re diverted, you have a negative emotional response & unhelpful behaviour. That means you’re stuck. That means you’re overwhelmed.
On the other hand, if your attention is on track you have situational awareness and you execute accurately. You are clear, you adapt and you overcome!

Bad decisions are not made through a lack of skill or innate judgement: they are made
because of an inability to handle pressure at the pivotal moment.

Stay loose, expressive, in the moment, calm, clear, accurate, on task.

Control your attention

*Mā te rongo, ka mōhio*

*Mā te mōhio, ka mārama*

*Mā te mārama, ka mātau*

*Mā te mātau, ka ora.*

From listening comes knowledge

From knowledge comes understanding

From understanding comes wisdom

From wisdom comes well-being.

**10) Authenticity**

The best leaders remain true to their deepest values. They lead their own life and others follow.

Leadership begins & ends with authenticity.

High-performing teams promote a culture of honesty, authenticity and safe conflict.

To the degree that integrity is diminished, the opportunity for performance is diminished.

If integrity is a central leadership tool & everyone in a team does exactly what they say they will do, clarity, certainty, productivity and momentum are the results.

Honesty = Integrity = Authenticity = Resilience = Performance

Know Thyself, Keep it real

*He tangata kī tahi.*

A person who can be taken at his word.

**11) Sacrifice**

*Ka tū te ihiihi*

Stand fearless.

Every day we go to work, every meeting that bores us, everything we do just for money or out ofobligation, all the time we kill, we are giving our life for it. So it better be worthwhile!

What is it that needs doing, that I know something about, that probably won’thappen unless I take responsibility for it?

Champions Do Extra

Find something you would die for & give your life to it

The motto **‘Champions do extra’** refers to the extra, discretionary effort and sacrifice it takes to do something extraordinary.

What is the extra that will make us extraordinary?

**A quote not from the book:** "If they don't understand your calling they'll never understand your sacrifice."

**12) Language**

*Taringa whakarongo.*

Let your ears listen.

Leaders are storytellers. All great organizations are born from a compelling story. This central organising thought helps people understand what they stand for and why.

Strong cultures need a system of meaning understood by everyone, a language to help our people ‘connect to the core’, using values, vocabulary, mottos, mantras & metaphors that help to bind the group together.

**Honour** - Integrity, Responsibility, Accountability.

**Courage** - Do the right thing, in the right way, for the right reason.

**Focus** - In order to do a good job of those things that we decide to do, we must eliminate all of the unimportant opportunities.

Invent Your Own Language, Sing the world into existence.

*He aha te kai o te rangatira. He kōrero, he kōrero, he kōrero.*

What is the food of a leader? It is knowledge. It is communication.

**13) Rituals**

Ritualize To Actualize, Create a culture

Inspiring leaders establish rituals (such as an equivalent to the haka) to connect their team to its core narrative, using them toreflect, remind, reinforce and reignite their collective identity and purpose.

Rituals tell your story, involve your people, create a legacy. Rituals make the intangible
real.

The All Blacks use the haka to reconnect with their fundamentalpurpose, to connect to the core of their culture, to summon their ancestors up from the earth to aidthem in their battle, to intimidate the competition, and to bond with one another.

*Au, au, aue hā!*

It’s our time! It’s our moment!

**14) Whakapapa**

Be A Good Ancestor, Plant trees you’ll never see

True leaders are stewards of the future. They take responsibility for adding to the legacy.

What you leave behind is not what is engraved in stone monuments, but what is woven into thelives of others.

Our time is limited. Understanding the fragility of life is the first step in understanding our role andresponsibility as a leader.

Our greatest responsibility is to honour those who came before us andthose who will come after, to ‘leave the jersey in a better place’.

We are the stewards of ourorganizations, the caretakers of our own lineage. Our actions today will echo beyond our time. Theyare our legacy.

*Manaaki Whenua, Manaaki Tangata, Haere whakamua.*

Care for the land, Care for the people, Go forward.

**15) LEGACY**

Write Your Legacy
This is your time

When a player makes the All Blacks, they’re given a book. It’s a small black book, bound in fine leather, and beautiful to hold.

The first page shows a jersey – that of the 1905 Originals, the team that began this long whakapapa.

On the next page is another jersey, that of the 1924 Invincibles, and on the page after, another jersey, and another, and so on until the present day.

It is a visual whakapapa, layered with meaning, a legacy to step into.

The next few pages of this All Black handbook remind you of the principles, the heroes, the values, the standards, the code of honour, the ethos, the character of the team.

The rest of the pages are blank. Waiting to be filled.

*It’s time to make your mark, they say. Your contribution. It’s time to leave a legacy. Your legacy. It’s your time.*

